So in this section we'll
talk about interfaces.
An interface is similar
to an abstract class,
it's a template of an abstract concept.
However, interfaces are meant
to be purely abstract,
and therefore they do not have state.
This means interfaces they
do not have constructors,
the values of their
fields cannot be changed,
in other classes implement interfaces
as opposed to extending them.
So we're going to create
a product interface and
then we're gonna create a book class
that will implement that product, okay?
So we'll make a new package,
we'll call our package interfaces.
Inside of here,
we're gonna make a new Java class.
Notice here, at the bottom, we seek class
interface and then a few others, right?
So interface is what we
wanna select this time.
So you see that it is different
than just a normal class, and
we'll call this interface product.
Now, if you've ever created
an interface you forgot to do,
change it from class to
interface that's okay,
it's simply just this word so
you would just change that to interface.
Now, we think about a product,
we could think of the fields.
That's what we've been
doing in other classes,
we think about what
attributes does that have?
For example, maybe a product has a name.
You don't want to even add
fields really in interfaces.
Notice I'm already getting an error
here about it can't be private.
I mean I could take that off, but
then I also get another error and
basically it's saying this
hasn't been initialized,
that's because they are final,
fields are final.
So you would only add a field in an
interface if you already know the value of
that field and it should not ever
be changed to anything else.
So in most cases, you wouldn't even need
to have fields in an interface, all right?
Let's go ahead and
make a couple of methods,
we'll say string get name
after the parentheses
close that with a semicolon and
then a void setName.
So I don't have the field for name, but
that's okay because I want name to
be modifiable by other classes.
And if I would have defined it in this
interface I would have said the name of
the product can only be this, and
that's not what I want, right?
So I've added these two methods by
default, these two methods are abstract.
I don't have to write the word
abstract because that's
just what they are in interfaces.
So you would be writing that in front
of every method basically, and so
Java saves you that trouble.
So this is our interface,
let's go ahead and
make another regular class that
will implement this interface.
So we'll call that one book Now,
in order to make the relationship
between book and
product, again,
you do not extend interfaces.
You're not inheriting from it like that,
we are doing this
implementing an interface.
That interface only has abstract methods,
my job is to implement
those abstract methods.
So the keyword you use here is implements,
not extends.
And then you specify the interface
that you want to implement.
Notice here we get an error right away,
it's gonna tell us,
hey, you got those abstract classes,
right?
This is the same thing, so
an interface is abstract by default
has abstract methods in it.
So in whatever I need to do,
in this case, I have two options.
What are they?
>> Make it abstract or implement.
>> Yes, so I can make the book
class abstracted itself, and
then I wouldn't be on the hook, or I need
to implement those abstract methods.
So we are going to actually
implement those abstract methods.
And I'm gonna just click this
implement methods here and say, yep,
I want both of those.
Notice the implementation is not what we
want, but we'll address that in a moment.
Let's go ahead and
make some fields for the book.
So we want to make that name field
that is implied in the interface.
We want things that
are specific to a book author,
maybe the pages of the book and
then an ISBN.
And we can make some getter and
setter methods for all of those.
The get and set for the name,
notice it didn't create that,
cuz that already exists, and
it basically existed in that interface.
So we've overwritten that, so
we can just change this implementation to
return name and here we'll set the name.
Okay, good?
All right, let's make another class.
And this is to test it out,
we'll call this one library.
Make a main method.
Now, just like abstract classes,
you can use the interface as a type.
However, you cannot
instantiate interfaces.
So I can say product book =,
if I tried to say new product,
I would get an error,
it's abstract, it cannot be instantiated.
So I would need to use one
of the implementing classes.
Okay, and then I can call that set name.
So that was again,
the method that we inherited or
essentially implemented
from the interface.
So I now put your favorite book,
this is not my favorite book,
but it's a common one.
All right, okay.